According to the Great Wheel cosmology model, the Elemental Plane of Fire could be reached via the Ethereal Plane, an adjacent elemental plane, or by an elemental vortex. Two known vortices to adjacent elemental planes were the Iron Crucible that led to the Elemental Plane of Earth and a vortex to the Plane of Air atop Jabal Turab, the Mount of Dust. If traveling through the Deep Ethereal, a red curtain of vaporous color indicated the boundary of the Plane of Fire's Border Ethereal region. Once in the Border Ethereal, a traveler could observe the Plane of Fire and be detected by its denizens. Using the spherical model, this plane was adjacent to the para-elemental planes of Smoke and Magma and the quasi-elemental planes of Radiance and Ash. Elemental vortices could occur wherever a high concentration or nearly pure form of an element was found, and could be temporary or permanent. Vortices to the Plane of Fire could often be found in pools of molten lava or the upwelling of magma in active volcanoes. Temporary gates could be created by the plane shift spell or the abilities of high-level druids.

As described by the World Tree cosmology model, the Astral Plane connected all planes with the Prime Material Plane and the Ethereal Plane was only used for journeying between locations on the Prime. The Elemental Plane of Fire was not connected or coterminous with any other elemental plane. The spell astral projection could be used to reach the Plane of Fire via a fire opal color pool. Additionally, the gate and plane shift spells could be used to open a temporary portal to this plane. To reach the Plane of Fire by means of a plane shift spell required a copper fork tuned to the note of A.