	Fana was abandoned as a young child on the steps of a noble Neverwinter family's mansion. The family was known to be kind and scholarly. Fana was found on the front steps with a high fever. When she recovered she had no memory, except for her given name Fana. The noble family did everything they could to find Fana's family or any clues to her origins, but none were forthcoming. Eventually, the noble family adopted Fana as one of their own. She was a calm, sweet-natured child, and a voracious reader. 

	The duke and duchess were impressed with her scholarly mind, and even more so her rare magical gifts. The noble family praised education very highly, and thought Fana a good companion for their own children. However, Fana continued to always feel different, and the mystery of her past never truly left her to feel totally at peace, though she was incredibly grateful to her adopted family and their life of comfort. Now and then Fana would have an unexplainable fit where her magics would overcome her, but these were few and far between, and she would usually flee into the surrounding forest when she felt such a loss of control coming on. After each such event, her magic would become stronger than it was before. Fana grew up privileged thought not as accepted by the rest of the nobility as by those who adopted her. She dedicated her life to learning as this way she could be mostly left alone, and her adopted family thought highly of this calling - though something in her has always yearned for adventure and the answer to her past.